BEP-610: Implement EVM Super Instruction (#610)
bnb-chain/BEPs: BEPs/BEP-610.md

<pre>
  BEP: 610

>   Title: Smart-Contract Bytecode Optimization & Super-Instruction Execution

Reviewer: change title to: "Implement EVM Super Instruction"

  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2025-08-12

>   Description: Custom single-byte opcodes to replace high-frequency EVM opcode sequences

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Description: It defines several customized super instruction opcodes to replace high frequency EVM opcode sequences to improve performance
```

</pre>

# BEP-610: Smart-Contract Bytecode Optimization & Super-Instruction Execution

- [BEP-610: Smart-Contract Bytecode Optimization & Super-Instruction Execution](#bep-610-smart-contract-bytecode-optimization--super-instruction-execution)
  - [1. Abstract](#1-abstract)
  - [2. Status](#2-status)
  - [3. Motivation](#3-motivation)
  - [4. Specification](#4-specification)
    - [4.1 Optimized Bytecode Generation (Background)](#41-optimized-bytecode-generation-background)
    - [4.2 Super-Instruction Execution (Foreground)](#42-super-instruction-execution-foreground)
    - [4.3 Super-Instruction Set Generation](#43-super-instruction-set-generation)
  - [5. Compatibility & Safety](#5-compatibility--safety)
  - [6. Backwards Compatibility](#6-backwards-compatibility)
  - [7. Security Considerations](#7-security-considerations)
  - [8. License](#8-license)

## 1. Abstract

> This BEP introduces Super-Instructions—custom single-byte opcodes that replace high-frequency EVM opcode sequences. Contract bytecode is pre-processed off-chain to embed these opcodes, and the on-chain interpreter executes them atomically. The approach yields significant execution-layer efficiency without altering consensus rules or requiring a hard-fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This BEP introduces several customized super instruction opcodes to replace high frequency EVM opcode sequences to improve performance. Contract byte code is pre-processed to convert some sequence of EVM opcodes to super instruction opcodes and the EVM interpreter executes these super instruction opcode atomically. The approach yields significant execution-layer efficiency without altering consensus rules or requiring a hard-fork.
```

## 2. Status

Draft

## 3. Motivation

> On main-net BSC, repeated execution of identical compiler-generated instruction patterns dominates gas consumption. By fusing these hot paths into single interpreter dispatches, we:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On BSC mainnet, repeated execution of identical compiler-generated instruction patterns dominates gas consumption. By fusing these hot paths into single interpreter dispatches, we:
```

### 4.2 Super-Instruction Execution (Foreground)

| Phase | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| Loading | Before execution, interpreter queries cache with codeHash. Hit ⇒ contract flagged optimized = true, fused bytecode loaded. Miss ⇒ original bytecode executed. |
| Dispatch | Main loop processes opcodes as usual. For newly added superinstruction opcodes, jump directly to Super-Instruction handler. |
| Semantics | Handler emulates entire sequence (e.g., AND DUP2 ADD SWAP1 DUP2 LT) in one step, adjusts PC by original length, validates jump targets when applicable. |
| Safety | If custom opcode appears in non-optimised contract, throw ErrIllegalSuperInst and revert. |

### 4.3 Super-Instruction Set Generation

| Process | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Data-Driven Mining | Trace production traffic, extract opcode sequences, compress with Re-Pair to obtain non-repetitive string. |
| Scoring | `score = len(sequence) × frequency` |
| Overlap Resolution | Greedy graph algorithm adjusts scores when super-instructions overlap (A ⊂ B). |
| Selection | Choose Top-K sequences (32 by default) as canonical super-instruction sets. |

> ## 5. Compatibility & Safety

Reviewer: No "Compatibility & Safety" section, can change it to ### 4.4

<pre>
  BEP: 610
  Title: Smart-Contract Bytecode Optimization & Super-Instruction Execution
  Status: Draft

>   Type: Standards Track

Reviewer: Type: Standards

>   Author: TBD

Reviewer: Author: TBD
==
it is optional, TBD is not preferred, could remove it

Author: accept, done

Reviewer 2: Bnb

  Created: 2025-08-12
  Requires: None

>   Replaces: None

Reviewer: No "Requires" & "Replaces" definition in https://github.com/bnb-chain/BEPs/blob/master/BEPs/BEP1.md#5--bep-format
